---
title: "react/jsx-boolean-value | Oxlint"
rule: "react/jsx-boolean-value"
category: "Style"
version: "0.7.0"
default: false
type_aware: false
fix: "fixable_fix"
---

<!-- This file is auto-generated by tasks/website_linter/src/rules/doc_page.rs. Do not edit it manually. -->

<script setup>
import { data } from '../version.data.js';
const source = `https://github.com/oxc-project/oxc/blob/${ data }/crates/oxc_linter/src/rules/react/jsx_boolean_value.rs`;
</script>

<RuleHeader />

### What it does

Enforce a consistent boolean attribute style in your code.

### Why is this bad?

In JSX, you can set a boolean attribute to `true` or omit it.
This rule will enforce a consistent style for boolean attributes.

### Examples

Examples of **incorrect** code for this rule with default `"never"` mode:

```jsx
const Hello = <Hello personal={true} />;
```

Examples of **correct** code for this rule with default `"never"` mode:

```jsx
const Hello = <Hello personal />;

const Foo = <Foo isSomething={false} />;
```

Examples of **incorrect** code for this rule with `"always"` mode:

```jsx
const Hello = <Hello personal />;
```

Examples of **correct** code for this rule with `"always"` mode:

```jsx
const Hello = <Hello personal={true} />;
```

## Configuration

### The 1st option

type: `"always" | "never"`

#### `"always"`

All boolean attributes must have explicit values.

#### `"never"`

All boolean attributes must omit values that are set to `true`.

### The 2nd option

This option is an object with the following properties:

#### always

type: `string[]`

default: `[]`

List of attribute names that should always have explicit boolean values.
Only necessary when main mode is `"never"`.

#### assumeUndefinedIsFalse

type: `boolean`

default: `false`

If `true`, treats `prop={false}` as equivalent to the prop being `undefined`.
When combined with `"never"` mode, this will enforce that the attribute is omitted entirely.

```jsx
// With "assumeUndefinedIsFalse": true
<App foo={false} />; // Incorrect
<App />; // Correct
```

This option does nothing in `"always"` mode.

#### never

type: `string[]`

default: `[]`

List of attribute names that should never have explicit boolean values.
Only necessary when main mode is `"always"`.

## How to use

<RuleHowToUse />

## Version

This rule was added in v0.7.0.

## References

<RuleReferences />
