---
title: "eslint/no-restricted-exports"
category: "Nursery"
default: false
type_aware: false
fix: "none"
---

<!-- This file is auto-generated by tasks/website_linter/src/rules/doc_page.rs. Do not edit it manually. -->

<script setup>
import { data } from '../version.data.js';
const source = `https://github.com/oxc-project/oxc/blob/${ data }/crates/oxc_linter/src/rules/eslint/no_restricted_exports.rs`;
</script>

<RuleHeader />

### What it does

This rule disallows specified names from being used as exported names.

### Why is this bad?

In a project, certain names may be disallowed from being used as exported names for various reasons.

### Options

By default, this rule doesn’t disallow any names. Only the names you specify in the configuration will be disallowed.

#### restrictedNamedExports

This option is an array of strings, where each string is a name to be restricted.

```json
{"rules: {"no-restricted-exports": ["error", { "restrictedNamedExports": ["foo", "bar"] }]}}
```

Example of **incorrect** code for the "restrictedNamedExports" option:

```js
{"rules: {"no-restricted-exports": ["error", { "restrictedNamedExports": ["foo"] }]}}

export const foo = 1;
```

##### Default exports

By design, the `restrictedNamedExports` option doesn’t disallow export default declarations. If you configure `default` as a restricted name, that restriction will apply only to named export declarations.

Examples of additional **incorrect** code for the `"restrictedNamedExports": ["default"]` option:

```js
{"rules: {"no-restricted-exports": ["error", { "restrictedNamedExports": ["default"] }]}}

function foo() {}
export { foo as default };
```

```js
{"rules: {"no-restricted-exports": ["error", { "restrictedNamedExports": ["default"] }]}}

export { default } from "some_module";
```

#### restrictedNamedExportsPattern

This option is a string representing a regular expression pattern. Named exports matching this pattern will be restricted. This option does not apply to default named exports.

Example of **incorrect** code for the "restrictedNamedExportsPattern" option:

```js
{"rules: {"no-restricted-exports": ["error", { "restrictedNamedExportsPattern": "bar$" }]}}

export const foobar = 1;
```

#### restrictDefaultExports

This option is an object option with boolean properties to restrict certain default export declarations. The option works only if the restrictedNamedExports option does not contain the "default" value.

##### direct

Whether to restricts `export default` declarations.

Example of **incorrect** code for the `"restrictDefaultExports": { "direct": true }` option:

```js
{"rules: {"no-restricted-exports": ["error", { "restrictDefaultExports": { "direct": true } }]}}

export default foo;
```

##### named

Whether to restricts `export { foo as default };` declarations.

Example of **incorrect** code for the `"restrictDefaultExports": { "named": true }` option:

```js
{"rules: {"no-restricted-exports": ["error", { "restrictDefaultExports": { "named": true } }]}}

const foo = 123;
export { foo as default };
```

##### defaultFrom

Whether to restricts `export { default } from 'foo';` declarations.

Example of **incorrect** code for the `"restrictDefaultExports": { "defaultFrom": true }` option:

```js
{"rules: {"no-restricted-exports": ["error", { "restrictDefaultExports": { "defaultFrom": true } }]}}

export { default } from 'foo';
```

##### namedFrom

Whether to restricts `export { foo as default } from 'foo';` declarations.

Example of **incorrect** code for the `"restrictDefaultExports": { "namedFrom": true }` option:

```js
{"rules: {"no-restricted-exports": ["error", { "restrictDefaultExports": { "namedFrom": true } }]}}

export { foo as default } from 'foo';
```

##### namespaceFrom

Whether to restricts `export * as default from 'foo';` declarations.

Example of **incorrect** code for the `"restrictDefaultExports": { "namespaceFrom": true }` option:

```js
{"rules: {"no-restricted-exports": ["error", { "restrictDefaultExports": { "namespaceFrom": true } }]}}

export * as default from 'foo';
```

## Configuration

This rule accepts a configuration object with the following properties:

### hasDefaultRestrictedNamedExport

type: `boolean`

### restrictDefaultExports

type: `object`

#### restrictDefaultExports.defaultFrom

type: `boolean`

default: `false`

#### restrictDefaultExports.direct

type: `boolean`

default: `false`

#### restrictDefaultExports.named

type: `boolean`

default: `false`

#### restrictDefaultExports.namedFrom

type: `boolean`

default: `false`

#### restrictDefaultExports.namespaceFrom

type: `boolean`

default: `false`

### restrictedNamedExports

type: `string[]`

default: `[]`

### restrictedNamedExportsPattern

type: `string`

## How to use

<RuleHowToUse />

## References

<RuleReferences />
